
Story

“But…. It was working on my laptop…” - what you will discover as soon as you start to work in a software company, is that while your code will always work fine on your laptop, most likely it will not be hosted from there… On your machine it is working like a charm - of course, you have spent months (years…) configuring the environment. Some parts of this environment has nothing to do with your application whatsoever (Excel, Photoshop, CS:GO…), some are necessary, but maybe not optimal (you do not need a complete Windows10 as an OS, but for sure need some of its functionalty) and there are a few “musthave”s - node, your depenedencies and your code for example. With docker, you can describe the bare minimum of requirements needed for your application to run - and then build a portable image, that contains all the dependencies, and can run anywhere. Do it, so that you can easily deploy it afterwards.
What are you going to learn?

    Dockerizing your application - make it ready to run anywhere
    Publish your images to an artifact repository - store them on Dockerhub
    Run and manage your images/applications in the cloud - get started with container orchestration
    => Devops basics

Tasks

Dockerize the backend
Describe an image in a Dockerfile that is derived from node, your whole app is added, and as a starting command runs your app exposed to the word on port 3000 - then build the image

    ‘docker images’ shows your built image
    ‘docker run’ -ing you application makes it listen on port 3000

Dockerize the frontend
Describe an image in a Dockerfile that is derived from nginx, add the static content to the proper folder - then build the image

    ‘docker images’ shows your built image
    ‘docker run’ -ing you application makes it listen on port 8080(!)

Publish your apps (images)
Tag your images with /my-first-fe and /my-first-be tags, then publish them to dockerhub

    You can see your images at https://hub.docker.com/ when logged in

Deploy your apps
Login to sloppy admin, deploy and manage your images

    Your app is available on .sloppy.zone
    The log level on the backend can be changed with environment variables
    The frontend app is served on two instances to handle the greater load

General requirements

    You have git and docker cli installed on your computer
    You have an account at github and dockerhub
    You have an account at sloppy.io

Hints

    You can stop your running docker containers with ‘docker stop’
    When experimenting with docker, you will create a lot of useless images - check out how to delete both the containers and images easily, so you can keep order in your local repository

Background materials

    Docker - get started
    Nginx - base image
    NodeJS - base image
    Container orchestration - admin app
    Dockefile reference
    Docker cli reference

